Astro Cloud IDE documentation (#1371)
astronomer/docs: astro/cloud-ide/deploy-project.md

---
sidebar_label: Deploy to Astro
title: Deploy a project from the Astro Cloud IDE to Astro
id: deploy-project
---

:::caution

<!-- id to make it easier to remove: cloud-ide-preview-banner -->

> The Cloud IDE is currently in _Public Preview_. This means that it is available to all Astro customers, but is still undergoing heavy development and features are subject to change. Creating projects in the Cloud IDE does not impact running tasks on existing Deployments. If you have any feedback, please submit it to the [Astro Cloud IDE product portal](https://portal.productboard.com/75k8qmuqjacnrrnef446fggj).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Cloud IDE is currently in _Public Preview_ and it is available to all Astro customers.  However, the feature is still in development and features and functionality are subject to change. Creating projects in the Cloud IDE does not affect running tasks on existing Deployments. If you have feedback on the Cloud IDE you'd like to share, submit it on the [Astro Cloud IDE product portal](https://portal.productboard.com/75k8qmuqjacnrrnef446fggj).
```

:::

> Once you've created a pipeline in the Cloud IDE, you can deploy it to Astro as part of your Cloud IDE project and run tasks according to the schedule you configured. To deploy a pipeline from the Cloud IDE, you must first push the pipeline to a GitHub repository and use Astro Cloud IDE's built-in CI/CD scripting to deploy to Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've created a pipeline in the Cloud IDE, you can deploy it to Astro as part of your Cloud IDE project and run tasks using an existing schedule. To deploy a pipeline from the Cloud IDE, you first push the pipeline to a GitHub repository and then you deploy it to Astro using the CI/CD scripting included with the Cloud IDE.
```

## Prerequisites

- Two Deployments on Astro, one for a production environment and one for development environment. See [Create a Deployment](/astro/create-deployment.md).

> - A GitHub account with a personal access token. See [Creating a personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

Reviewer: - A Project

You can't do anything without a project.

## Step 1: Link your Cloud IDE project to GitHub

To deploy your pipeline and Cloud IDE project to Astro, you first need to link your Cloud IDE project to a GitHub repository. Astronomer recommends one GitHub repository for every Cloud IDE project.

> 1. Open your project in the Astro Cloud IDE. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Open your project in the Cloud IDE. 
```

We need to decide if we'll be including _Astro_ with _Cloud IDE_. If so, we need to update the entire doc to make sure the naming convention is consistent.

2. Click **Configure**.

> 3. Enter your GitHub repository information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Enter your GitHub repository information.
```
Are we assuming that users will know how to generate the necessary key, and how to identify their organization and repository? Could we link to existing GitHub docs?

> 4. Click **Update**. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Click **Update**. 
```
This wasn't my experience. You enter your key and click **Update**, and then you enter your organization and repository and then click **Update** again.

> After you configure a GitHub repository, you can start committing changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to the repository.

Reviewer: Should this be a standalone procedure - _Commit changes from the Cloud UI to a GitHub repository_?

> 1. Click **Configure**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace and then click **Cloud IDE** in the left menu.
2. Select a project.
3. Edit the project and then click **Commit** to commit your changes.
4. Select an existing branch, or click **New Branch**.
5. In the **COMMIT MESSAGE** field, enter a commit message and then click **Commit**.
```
A few problems with this - _Configure_ is a tab in the **Commit to** dialog:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/104205257/199250952-ab060f9f-1eb3-426c-b799-9c0c80aff79d.png)

This dialog appears after you've configured your GitHub settings. However, I would recommend starting the procedure as shown in my edits.

2. Click **New Branch**, then choose from either an existing branch or create a new branch.
3. In the **COMMIT MESSAGE** field, enter a commit message. This will be the commit message for committing your changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to GitHub.
4. Click **Commit**.

## Step 2: Link your Deployments to GitHub

On your first commit, the Astro Cloud IDE will automatically push a Github Actions workflow to your repository that includes steps for deploying to Astro. Currently, the GitHub action will:

- Deploy your Cloud IDE project to your development Deployment when you commit to a `dev` branch.
- Deploy your Cloud IDE project to your production Deployment when you commit to a `main` branch.

> Astronomer recommends creating a feature branch for every new pipeline and creating a pull request (PR) with new changes that merge into the `dev` branch. Merging that PR triggers a push to your development Deployment, where you can confirm that your data pipeline is functional. Once you confirm your changes, submit a pull request from your `dev` branch into `main`. This deploys your tested changes to your production Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends creating a feature branch for every new pipeline and creating a pull request (PR) with new changes that merge into the `dev` branch. Merging the PR triggers a push to your development Deployment, where you can confirm that your data pipeline is functional. When you confirm your changes, submit a pull request from your `dev` branch into `main`. This deploys your tested changes to your production Deployment.
```

You can commit changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to your GitHub repository without configuring Deployments in GitHub. However, there is currently no way to disable the GitHub Action that the Astro Cloud IDE pushes to your repository. If you don't complete the following steps, the GitHub Action fails and you can't deploy your changes to Astro, but the rest of your commit processes are successful.

> 1. Identify a Deployment for production and a Deployment for development. Note the Deployment ID for each Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Identify a Deployment for production and a Deployment for development. Note the Deployment ID for each Deployment.
```
What is the Deployment ID? How does a users get this information? Do I do this in the cloud UI?

> 2. Create a Deployment API key in each Deployment. See [Create an API key](api-keys.md#create-an-api-key). Note the API key and secret for each Deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Create a Deployment API key for your production and development Deployments. See [Create an API key](api-keys.md#create-an-api-key). Note the API key and secret for each Deployment.
```

3. Create the following GitHub secrets in your GitHub repository: 
    - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-prod-api-key-id>`
    - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-prod-api-key-secret>`
    - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID` = `<your-prod-astro-deployment-id>`
    - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-dev-api-key-id>`
    - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-dev-api-key-secret>`
    - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID` = `<your-dev-astro-deployment-id>`

> After configuring your Github actions, your commits from the Astro Cloud IDE to your `main` or `dev` branches will be automatically deployed to Astro.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After configuring your Github actions, commits from the Cloud IDE to your `main` or `dev` branches are automatically deployed to Astro.
```

## Step 3: Commit to Astro

> Once you've configured a repository, the **Configure** button in the Astro Cloud IDE changes to **Commit**. This tab allows you to commit your changes to your repository. You can also view the status of your repository and any changes that were committed from the Astro Cloud IDE.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you've configured a GitHub repository, the **Configure** button in the Cloud IDE updates to **Commit**. You can now commit your changes to your repository. You can also view the status of your repository and any changes that were committed from the Cloud IDE.
```

> 1. Open your project in the Astro Cloud IDE. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. In the Cloud UI, select a Workspace and then click **Cloud IDE** in the left menu.
2. Select a project.
3. Edit the project and then click **Commit** to commit your changes.
4. Select an existing branch, or click **New Branch**.
5. In the **COMMIT MESSAGE** field, enter a commit message and then click **Commit**.
```

---
sidebar_label: Deploy to Astro
title: Deploy a project from the Astro Cloud IDE to Astro
id: deploy-project
---

:::caution

<!-- id to make it easier to remove: cloud-ide-preview-banner -->

> The Cloud IDE is currently in _Public Preview_. This means that it is available to all Astro customers, but is still undergoing heavy development and features are subject to change. Using the Cloud IDE has no impact to your Deployments or pipelines running in production. If you have any feedback, please submit it to the [Astro Cloud IDE product portal](https://portal.productboard.com/75k8qmuqjacnrrnef446fggj).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Cloud IDE is currently in _Public Preview_. This means that it is available to all Astro customers, but is still undergoing heavy development and features are subject to change. Creating projects in the Cloud IDE does not impact running tasks on existing Deployments.

If you have feedback, we'd love to hear it. Please submit ideas to the [Astro Cloud IDE product portal](https://portal.productboard.com/75k8qmuqjacnrrnef446fggj).
```

- You _can_ push a project to Astro and in theory that could be your production pipelines right? I'd be ok with removing this sentence entirely, but for now rephrased it to be crisper in what we mean

:::

> Once you've created a pipeline and configured the schedule, you're ready to deploy your project and run it on your specified schedule. To deploy a pipeline from the Cloud IDE, you must first push the pipeline to a GitHub repository and then deploy it using CI/CD.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've created a pipeline in the Cloud IDE, you can deploy it to Astro as part of your Cloud IDE project and run tasks according to the schedule you configured. To deploy a pipeline from the Cloud IDE, you must first push the pipeline to a GitHub repository and then deploy it using CI/CD.
```

Noob Q but is it the project or the pipeline that you're deploying? Is it a Cloud IDE project or an Astro project? We should be consistent

Reviewer 3: During my edits I had assumed it was your entire project, which includes multiple pipelines. @jlaneve If you use the commit button from your pipeline editor does it only commit the changes from that pipeline?

Author: Good question - you commit the entire project, but can select certain files. By default you'll commit the entire project (config + all your pipelines) but you could deselect everything except for your single pipeline, in which case you're only committing your pipeline.

## Prerequisites

> - Two Deployments on Astro, one for production deploys and one for development deploys. See [Create a Deployment](/astro/create-deployment.md).

Reviewer 2: Do you _need_ two Deployments? While we're in Public Beta, do we expect these to be "net new" Deployments that customers create for the sake of trying out Build or can they be existing Deployments?

> - Two Deployments on Astro, one for production deploys and one for development deploys. See [Create a Deployment](/astro/create-deployment.md).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Two Deployments on Astro, one for a production environment and one for development environment. See [Create a Deployment](/astro/create-deployment.md).
```

- A GitHub account with a personal access token. See [Creating a personal access token](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

## Step 1: Link your Cloud IDE project to GitHub

> To deploy your pipeline to Airflow, you'll need to link your Cloud IDE project to a GitHub repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To deploy your pipeline and Cloud IDE project to Astro, you first need to link your Cloud IDE project to a GitHub repository. Astronomer recommends one GitHub repository for every Cloud IDE project.
```

1. Open your project in the Astro Cloud IDE. 
2. Click **Configure**.
3. Enter your GitHub repository information.
4. Click **Update**. 

After you configure a GitHub repository, you can start committing changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to the repository.

1. Click **Configure**.
2. Click **New Branch**, then choose from either an existing branch or create a new branch.
3. In the **COMMIT MESSAGE** field, enter a commit message. This will be the commit message for committing your changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to GitHub.
4. Click **Commit**.

## Step 2: Link your GitHub repository to Astro

The Astro Cloud IDE will automatically push a Github Actions workflow to your repository that includes steps for deploying to Astro. Currently, the GitHub action will:

> - Push code to an configured production Deployment whenever you commit to a `main` branch.
> - Push code to an configured development Deployment whenever you commit to a `dev` branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deploy your Cloud IDE project to your development Deployment when you commit to a `dev` branch.
- Deploy your Cloud IDE project to your production Deployment when you commit to a `main` branch.
```

> Astronomer recommends creating a feature branch, PRing those changes into the `dev` branch, confirming the changes are functional in a dev environment, then PRing the dev branch into the main branch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Astronomer recommends creating a feature branch for every new pipeline and creating a Pull Request (PR) with those changes that merge into the `dev` branch. This will trigger a push to your development Deployment, where you can confirm that your data pipeline is functional. Once you confirm your changes, merge your `dev` branch into `main`. This will deploy your changes to your production Deployment on Astro.
```

> 
> To make this GitHub action work: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 1. Identify a Deployment for production deploys and a Deployment for development deploys. Note the Deployment ID for both Deployments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Identify a Deployment on Astro for production and development, respectively. Note the Deployment ID for each Deployment.
```

> 2. Create a Deployment API key in each Deployment. See [Manage Deployment API keys](api-keys.md). Note the API key and secret for both API keys.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Create a Deployment API key in each Deployment. See [Create API key](api-keys.md). Note the API key and secret for each Deployment.
```

> 3. Create the following GitHub secrets in your GitHub repository: 

Reviewer 2: Link to GH docs?

>     - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-prod-key-id>`
>     - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-prod-key-secret>`
>     - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID` = `<your-prod-astro-deployment-id>`
>     - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-dev-key-id>`
>     - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-dev-key-secret>`
>     - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID` = `<your-dev-astro-deployment-id>`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-prod-api-key-id>`
    - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-prod-api-key-secret>`
    - `PROD_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID` = `<your-prod-astro-deployment-id>`
    - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_ID` = `<your-dev-api-key-id>`
    - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_KEY_SECRET` = `<your-dev-api-key-secret>`
    - `DEV_ASTRONOMER_DEPLOYMENT_ID` = `<your-dev-astro-deployment-id>`
```

After configuring your Github actions, your commits from the Astro Cloud IDE to your `main` or `dev` branches will be automatically deployed to Astro.

> If you skip these steps, the GitHub action will fail. However, you can still commit changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to GitHub without configuring Deployments. 

Reviewer 2: Hm this should be at the top of this doc and likely include more detail -- what exactly happens if the user doesn't follow all of these steps?

Reviewer 3: I'm not too worried about getting this detail quite right because it still seems like a nascent feature (currently there's no way to toggle on/ off the GitHub action if you only want to use GitHub for version control instead of deploys).

If the user doesn't follow these steps, they can't deploy to Astro. I tried to make it more clear that this is due to the default GitHub action failing, but I think any more information would just be redundant with general understanding about how deployments/ deployment API keys work.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> ## Step 3: Push to Astro

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Commit to Astro
```

To be consistent w button

> Once you've configured a repository, the **Configure** button changes to **Commit**. This tab allows you to commit your changes to your repository. You can also view the status of your repository and any changes that were committed from the Astro Cloud IDE. To commit your changes:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once you've configured a repository, the **Configure** button in the Cloud UI changes to **Commit**. This tab allows you to commit your changes to your repository. You can also view the status of your repository and any changes that were committed from the Astro Cloud IDE.
```

1. Open your project in the Astro Cloud IDE. 
2. Click **Commit**.
3. In **BRANCH**, select a branch to commit to.
4. In **COMMIT MESSAGE**, enter a commit message. This will be the commit message for committing your changes from the Astro Cloud IDE to GitHub.
5. Click **Commit**

![Commit Changes](/img/cloud-ide/commit.png)

> Your changes are automatically pushed to GitHub, then pushed to your configured Deployments. To confirm that the changes were applied, open your Deployments in the Cloud UI and click **Open Airflow**. 

Reviewer 2: Add this as step 6?

   
:::tip

> You can select/deselect files to commit by clicking on the checkbox next to the file name. Commits are made at the project level, so by default, all files in your project will be committed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can select or deselect files to commit by clicking on the checkbox next to the file name. Commits are made at the project level, so by default, all files in your project will be committed. You cannot currently commit a single pipeline without committing the rest of your project.
```

---
sidebar_label: Deploy to Astro
title: Deploy a project from the Astro Cloud IDE to Astro
id: deploy-project
---

:::caution

<!-- id to make it easier to remove: cloud-ide-preview-banner -->

The Cloud IDE is currently in _Public Preview_ and it is available to all Astro customers. It is still in development and features and functionality are subject to change. Creating projects in the Cloud IDE does not affect running tasks on existing Deployments. If you have feedback on the Cloud IDE you'd like to share, you can submit it on the [Astro Cloud IDE product portal](https://portal.productboard.com/75k8qmuqjacnrrnef446fggj).

:::

> After you've created a pipeline in the Cloud IDE, you can deploy it to Astro as part of your Cloud IDE project and run tasks using an existing schedule. To deploy a pipeline from the Cloud IDE, you first push the pipeline to a GitHub repository and then you deploy it to Astro using the CI/CD script included with the Cloud IDE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you create a pipeline in the Cloud IDE, you can deploy it to Astro and run tasks on a schedule. If you're an existing Astro user, you can do one of the following:

- Download the pipeline's Python file from the Cloud IDE and copy it to an existing Astro project and Deployment.
- Connect the Cloud IDE to a GitHub repository that hosts the source code for existing Deployments on Astro.
- Create a new Deployment that's dedicated to Cloud IDE development and separate from other data pipelines.

This guide assumes that you create a dedicated Deployment and use the automated CI/CD process that's included with the Cloud IDE.
```
